[React] - Add 'Avoid usage of `:first-child` CSS selector with Emotion 10' section (#53)
infinum/frontend-handbook: React/Common SSR errors.md

# Common SSR errors

## Avoid usage of `:first-child` CSS selector with Emotion 10

> If `:first-child` CSS selector is used in SSR application React will show this warning in the console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `:first-child` CSS selector is used in server-side rendered applications, React will show this warning in the console:
```

```
The pseudo class ":first-child" is potentially unsafe when doing server-side rendering. Try changing it to ":first-of-type"
```

> Default server side rendering in Emotion 10 renders the `<style>` tag inline with the component, instead of extracting everything inside `<head>`. Similar to "shadow CSS" in Web Component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default server-side rendering in Emotion 10 renders the `<style>` tag inline with the component, instead of extracting everything inside `<head>`, similarly to "shadow CSS" in Web Components.
```

This approach enables streaming and requires no additional configuration, but does not work with nth child or similar selectors.

> Here is the example of `:first-child` selector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of the `:first-child` selector:
```

```jsx
import styled from "@emotion/styled";

const Text = styled.p`
  color: gray;
  &:first-child {
    color: black;
  }
`;

export default () => (
  <div>

>     <Text>Tilte</Text>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Text>Title</Text>
```

    <Text>Subtitle</Text>
  </div>
);
```

> This is the DOM structure generated on the server side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the DOM structure generated on the server-side:
```

```html
<div>
  <style data-emotion-css="1fyxi0m">
    .css-1fyxi0m {
        color: gray;
    }

    .css-1fyxi0m:first-child {
        color: black;
    }
  </style>

>   <p class="css-1fyxi0m">Tilte</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <p class="css-1fyxi0m">Title</p>
```

  <style data-emotion-css="1fyxi0m">
    .css-1fyxi0m {
        color: gray;
    }

    .css-1fyxi0m:first-child {
        color: black;
    }
  </style>
  <p class="css-1fyxi0m">Subtitle</p>
</div>
```

> As the first child is `<style>` instead of `<p>` tag, `:first-child` selector won't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the first child is a `<style>` instead of a `<p>` element, the `:first-child` selector won't work.
```

### Solution
Use `:first-of-type`, `:last-of-type` or `:nth-of-type` selectors.

> > Read more about alternative SSR setup in the official documentation https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Read more about an alternative SSR setup in the [official documentation](https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr).
```
